Hi, welcome to the screencast.
Here, I'll show you the pong-reinforce Jupyter notebook,
where you are going to try to train an agent to play
pong using only the pixels as inputs.
Now, let's go over each individual cell in the notebook.
I will only highlight some of the key features and nuances in some of the code here.
The first cell is essentially initialization,
where you install the JSAnimation package for displaying animations.
We also import the pong_utils.py file,
which includes many useful function for collecting trajectories,
also includes solutions for some of the exercises and also other useful functions.
Also, notice that I'm using the GPU environment here,
and I will strongly encourage you to turn GPU off,
play with the code,
and then make sure that the code is working properly,
and then you can turn it back on.
So, the next step is to
initialize our environment and get a few of what the game looks like.
We're using PongDeterministic-V4, which is a
little easier to train than the vanilla environment.
The difference is that the deterministic version does not contain random frame skipping.
So, there's a little less noise and makes it a little easier to train.
Now, let's take a look at the number of actions available.
We'll only be using 'RIGHTFIRE' and 'LEFTFIRE',
which will keep our policies simple.
So, our policy will just output the probability of going to the right,
such that the probability of going left is just one minus that.
Now, why are we using the fire version instead of the normal version, you might ask?
Well, it's because when we lose a life,
we want the game to start right away.
We don't want the agent to have to learn how to fire to keep the game going.
So, this will also make training a little easier.
So, we'll only be using these two actions here.
Now, given that we're only using the pixels as inputs,
it will be advantageous for us to
preprocess the image to keep the input a little smaller.
That also speed up training.
Now, what we do is,
we down-sample the image,
make it black and white,
and also crop the boundaries that are irrelevant.
So, the original image looks something like this,
the preprocessed image looks something like this.
Also, know that in order to catch the temporal difference,
we are actually stacking two consecutive time frames together.
So, our input image will be 80 by 80 pixels times two channels as the input.
Now, the first exercise is shown here.
Where do you implement your own policy?
Now, I've included a toy policy for you to test your code on.
But, this only includes one convolutional layer and one fully-connected layer.
It's very simple network and you're unlikely to get
any interesting results using this to train.
So, I encourage you to play around to add maybe two to the three convolutional layers,
maybe two to three fully connected layers.
You can try different combinations, different non-linear activations.
But for illustration purposes,
I'm going to use the solution provided from pong utils file,
the policy that I came up with,
which is pretty good.
Gives you pretty good results.
The next step is you can play again using the play function from the pong utils.
Now, this is what it looks like.
You load this function,
give it the environment, the policy.
You can also add in an optional argument,
the preprocess, which is a function.
You can add this in and you can see what the agent
sees during training to get a better sense.
Now, we can play this animation little bit here.
Go all the way to the beginning.
It looks something like this.
It's more or less random,
so it's not doing much to the agent here.
The next step is we can collect rollouts now or the trajectories using this function.
I've included an environment,
a parallel environment that allows you to
collect trajectories from multiple agents in parallel.
So, you only need to give it the name of the environment,
the number of parallel agents.
Given that the GPU mode has four parallel virtual CPUs,
I would recommend you use a multiple of four.
I'll be using eight in the train runs you'll see later.
There is also a seed that you can put in.
Now, the output of this trajectory is essentially a list of the policy,
which is the probability of going to the right,
the states, which are just the frames,
the actions, and the reward.
Now, I can print out, for example, the probability here.
What you get is a huge list of probabilities.
Each term in this list correspond to one time step.
For example, the first time step,
it contains an array of four numbers.
This tells you the probability of moving to the right for
that particular timestamp for those four parallel agents.
You can see that it's pretty close to point five.
So, it's more or less random.
Now, here comes exercise two.
This is where you are going to code your scalar function that you feed two PyTorch,
such that it can invoke the backward function and compute the gradient.
Now, for the reinforce,
you really have two choices.
You can either compute the log,
the sum of the log times the future reward straightforwardly,
or you can choose the second option which is what's provided in the solution.
Instead, you can put a fraction.
But, the difference is that you need to make sure that
the denominator when you use derivatives,
it gives you a constant,
such that when you take the derivative,
it only affects the numerator.
So, at the end these two options will give you the same results.
So, here's the skeleton code to write your scalar function,
which I call the surrogate function.
Now, I've only included you an entropy term here
for regularization with a coefficient Beta that you can input to the function here.
Now, this regularization basically forces the policy to not be exactly zero or one.
So, it helps with a little bit of exploration in the beginning.
Now, once you've coded up this function,
you can give it a shot.
You can pass it through a trajectory and compute it.
You will see that you get a tensor.
Now, here comes the training one.
What you do is you initialize the environments.
Here are a parallel agents.
Choose number of episodes to train.
Now, in the beginning,
you can try to train maybe fewer episodes,
maybe like 100 to get a feel of how things go.
This is the code to display a progress bar that tells you how long training will take,
how much remaining time there is.
Now, here are some other hyperparameters you can tune.
This count rate 0.99 is fairly standard.
A Beta, this is the coefficient of the entropy term.
So, 0.01 is sensible.
Also, the maximum timestep to collect trajectories.
You could certainly run entire episodes,
but given that we're trying to train an agent and
see that it can generalize us the information,
it's nice to have trajectories that are smaller than entire episode.
So, I recommend somewhere around 300 to 400 so that once you go to the training,
it's general enough that the agent can play through an entire episode.
So, now you go to the training run.
This the trailing loop,
go to each episode,
you collect trajectories, compute the total rewards.
That's just for bookkeeping.
Now here, if you code up your own function,
you will call L equals to negative surrogate function.
Notice that we have an extra negative sign here.
This is because PyTorch by default computes gradient descent.
But, we want gradient ascent.
So, that's why this extra negative sign.
Now, for illustration, I'm also going to use
the solution I provided in pong utils, the surrogate function.
You perform gradient ascent.
You also reduce Beta because as you learn,
you imagine that we don't need as much exploration anymore.
You can reduce this or you can remove this.
Both options are okay.
You can play around, and then it will output some statistics.
So, training takes quite a while here.
So, for me, it takes roughly 40 minutes for this training round.
You can see that the training scores slightly improves.
Here's a figure that shows you the mean reward.
You can see that after 500 episode.
It's still not very good.
I'm still in the negative here,
but training is still continuing.
If I run this for long,
it'll probably get better,
but it might take a few hours.
I can play a game after training for 500 episodes.
You can see that the agent is playing not too well,
but it definitely learn some strategies.
We might see it pick up a point or two.
You got a point here.
So, it's not very good right now,
but you can see that training has happened.
You can try to run the policy during the training for longer to see if it improves.
Now, given that training takes awhile,
I would encourage you to save your policy such that you can
reload it later and continue the training.
Also, we can compare policy across
different training lines in different random seed and so forth.
But, the reinforce algorithm is known to be fairly noisy,
requires a lot of training.
So, don't get discouraged if at the end the results are not very good.
As we will see later, using PPO,
you can improve the training efficiency by a lot and you will be able
to train an agent that's able to beat the computer given the same amount of time.